Are you ready to go deeper and Python?
I hope you are because this is
episode two of my free Python course,
where I'm going to teach you everything
you need to know to become dangerous
in Python.
So here we go, armed with coffee
and the knowledge from episode one,
where we talked about strings and things.
We're now moving on to talk about one
of the most fundamental things in Python
and really just programming in general
variables. The variables are fun.
I can't wait to show you now. What
do you need to learn this? Well,
just like episode one, nothing.
I have a free Python lab available
in the description. Seriously.
It's amazing right here from your browser,
you can program in Python or even
from your phone. It's awesome. Oh,
and almost forgot you need coffee. It's
just required. I didn't make the rules.
And also a massive shout
out to the sponsor of this
entire series and why it can
be free here on YouTube. It pro TV.
I use it pro TV to learn
pretty much everything in it.
From networking to hacking.
If you want to get your CCNA
or A-plus or Linux plus,
or pretty much whatever that got
you back with amazing top notch,
video training and hands-on labs
and Python did. I mentioned Python.
They had these amazing Python courses
that cover some fun stuff like Python for
security and Python for
networking professionals.
That's just cool. So anyways,
you want, wanna check them out?
You definitely should use my link
below where code network Chuck,
and get 30% off forever. Now I need
your help with something you and me.
We're going to start a
coffee shop together. Yes.
It's going to be called the
network. chuck.coffee, coffee shop.
We'll work on the name and to do that,
we're going to be a bit geeky about it.
We're going to program our own
baristas. So here in this video,
we're going to write some code to
automate our baristas. How cool was that?
Anyway, let's do this. So go ahead
and launch your lab. Check that link.
And the description again is going
to be right here in your browser.
And it's so cool. First quick review.
What the junk is that judging
by the hashtag in front of it?
Hashtag that's comment, right? Telling
us it's for us and not the computer.
So yeah, we're starting
a coffee shop together.
Let's add one more comment to
talk about what we're about to do.
Put a hashtag in. Let's build a robot
barista. Now again, quick review.
When we click run to run this code, what's
going to show up right here. Try it.
Nothing because the computer ignored all
this stuff. Let's give us some stuff.
It can't ignore. Let's do this
now first with any great barista.
We want them to say a greeting.
When someone comes in, hello,
welcome to network chuck.coffee. So
let's make our computer barista say that.
How would you do that? Well, simple
right? To make our computer talk.
We print print using a
print function parentheses.
And then between those parentheses,
we'll add what it should say,
which will be a string.
So we'll say hello,
welcome to network Chuck coffee. And
they've had a lot of coffee today.
So at a bunch of exclamation
points, yes. A robot runs on coffee.
You didn't know that.
And that's it. And again,
quick review print right here is our
function. It's got the parentheses.
And then in between those parentheses,
we have our string because it's
between quotes, which by the way,
did you say string like this
all day from the last episode,
if you did let me know in the discussion
or the comments and when we print this,
what do you think is going to show up
right here? Let's see. Is it programming?
Fun? This so fun. Let's hit run.
Cool. We made the computer talk.
So our robot barista,
he's already well-trained.
He knows how to say hi to people, but
he needs to be more than that, right?
If you want us to
actually make coffee. Now,
if you've ever been to
a coffee shop, you know,
any good barista is going to ask you
what your name is so they can write that
sucker on the cup. Right? So here we go.
Let's make our robot barista ask you
what your name is. Prince string.
What is your name? So we get to
print functions, two strings.
And if we click run on that sucker
run, cool. What's your name?
So we made our robot barista talk,
but how do we make it to where we
can talk back to our robot barista?
And he hears us. He takes the information
in that's our next cool thing.
We're going to learn. So check this out.
It's something called the
input function, who? Yes.
If I go in and type it
in with me right now,
just type in the word input and
then parentheses open and close.
Yes, sir.
This one's super cool and opens up
the door for us to have a lot of fun.
The input function will solve our problem.
This thing is designed to take input
from the user or our customers,
and also fun to know whatever
it takes from the user.
It will automatically
convert it to a string,
which will become more important later.
What we'll talk about that, but anyways,
let's see an action. So check it out.
So what we're going to do is use the
input function to get our customer's name.
So actually we're going to remove this
print function. Let's get it out of here.
We all need the print function
anymore for this purpose. Anyway.
So take them out. Goodbye. We're gonna
put the input function in his place. Now,
in order for our robot
barista, to ask the question,
we're gonna actually put a
string between these parentheses,
just like the pro function. So right
there, we'll put what's is your name.
So now let's run it. I
don't want to wait anymore.
Just click on run and
let's see what happens.
What's what's happening.
Our script is still running and it seems
like it's waiting on us to do something
because it is, it is it's waiting on
our input or our customer's input.
So right here in our command
line, it's just kind of chilling.
So let's answer it. Just start typing
right there. I'll type in a Bob on Bob.
And we did it. We told our
computer what our name was,
but that was kind of anti-climactic
like, w what happened?
We hadn't seen anything
happen from that. Yes.
The computer asked us what our name was.
And we were able to tell him
we didn't do anything with it.
Now we could do this. We could
actually print our input function,
which makes me feel like inception,
but let's try it out real quick.
So let's just put prints around this
I'll type print in front of input,
and then put in parentheses
one before it one after it.
So essentially this is what's so
cool about programming. Goodness.
The input function is inside
of the print function. Now,
what do you think will happen
here? Positivity to think
about it. Okay. Resume.
When we run this code, what's going
to happen. Let's go ahead and do it.
Click on run. So same thing as before,
it's going to ask us for our input.
What's your name, buddy? Bob. And
then it told us back it printed it,
which is cool in theory, but useless
for our robot barista. What we,
wasn't your barista to go, Hey, what's
your name? You say bobbin. He goes, Bob,
what good is that? But it is cool again,
that we can print our input function here
and have the result given back to us,
but we don't need that. So let's
take the print function off of it.
So let's move on and talk about how it
can make our robot barista do something
with the name that we give it. So
right after our input function,
let's do another pro function,
enter a few times type in prince,
do our parentheses, and then we'll do a
string. So quotes and I'll say, hello,
and I want the person's name to be here.
So I'm just gonna kind of put some
filler here, some periods, pillow.
Thank you so much for coming
in today. Instead of periods,
I could just put in Bob. Hello,
Bob, thank you for coming in today,
but it might not always be Bob that
comes in. I would hope so. Right?
I hope I have more than
one customer than Bob. Uh,
it might be Susan or Patricia
or Dave. I don't know.
How can we program our robot barista to
say something like someone's name when
it varies? Well, you probably saw this.
Kelvin will use something called a very,
a bull. You see what I did there?
Anyways, here we go. Variables variables,
a variable as a method of storing
data for reuse, for example,
a name we may want our
robot barista to act,
to remember a name when
the customer tells them.
So we'll do that here in a second,
but first let's create a variable.
Let's just play with them real
quick. So here in our code,
the first thing I want
you to do real quick,
let's see if you remember this
comment out, all your code.
So the robot barista we'll ignore it.
The way we can do that is by adding a
hashtag or a pound sign in front of all
our commands or functions here,
hashtag hashtag hashtag. Okay,
so now the computer ignores that
we run the code. Nothing again.
That's handy to do when you want
to just test out stuff and, uh,
have the computer. Ignore it anyways.
So just blow all that type in this.
This is how we create a variable
type in name, no parentheses,
no quotation marks. Just name that
interspace equals space. And here,
I want you to put in your name as a
string right after the equal sign.
But for me, I'll just put in quotations
to make it a string network, Chuck,
and that's it. We just made
a variable this right here,
name with nothing around it.
Just a word is a variable.
And we set that variable equal to the
string network. Chuck now real quick,
I want you to run the code and see what
happens going click run that. Yeah,
you clicked it. And
nothing happened, right?
Because all we did was create a variable,
but we didn't tell the computer to say
anything or do anything to the computer
is very literal. He'll
do whatever you tell him.
But it only exactly what you
tell him. So now just below that,
let's print that variable. So
do this type in print. Yeah.
You can print variables, put our print
seasons. So we have our print function.
And then just between those just type in
the variable name, just type the name.
No again, no quotations, no anything.
And then click run. Look at that.
We created a variable named name.
We said equal to the string of your
name in my case network, Chuck.
And then we printed the variable,
which came out right here. Now again,
the key characteristic of a variable is
that it can vary based on what you said
it two. So keep your same code here,
but just below it doesn't mean you can't
watch this. Do this again, type a name,
that same variable name and
send the equal to, I don't know,
iron man iron man, the string iron
man. And then just below that code,
let's print that variable
again. Print name.
What do you think going to
happen here? Let's try it out.
Go ahead and click on run. Right.
Whoa. How cool was that? Well,
here in our code, we define the variable
name, set it to equal network. Chuck,
the string or the string network.
Chuck. I said that backwards,
but then we changed our mind and set
the variable name equal to Ironman.
And then we printed that. Okay. Now
that we know how to create a variable,
what do you say? We use
it for our barista robot.
Let's make him remember a customer's
name up here. And here's how we do that.
It's going to remove our variable
playground here. Just delete all that.
And let's uncomment our code
here to remove those hashtags.
So it's back in action. Now I
want to see if you can do this.
How do I set this input? Which will be
what we tell the computer or our robot.
How do we set that to become a
variable and store it as data?
Try it out real quick. Pause
the video and pause. Here we go.
It's as simple as this right
here in front of the input,
I'm going to type in name,
defining a variable space
equals space. That's it.
When we run this code,
we're saying create a variable named
name and that variable will equal
the input that we ask from the
user. What? Yeah, no. Let's,
let's try it out real quick
now to see that in action.
Let's real quick comment
out our last print function.
And then just below the name variable
where we set it. Let's print name now.
Let's see what happens. Let's
run the code run. Hello.
Welcome the nurse at coffee. What's
your name? My name is Susan bam.
So what just happened there? Well, it
asked us for our name. We said, Susan,
the computer set the variable
name equal to Susan, a string.
And then we printed the variable
out, which is the string Susan.
So our next step is to use this in our
ingredient. So instead of saying, hello,
Bob, thank you for coming in today. We
want to say hello, the customer's name.
Thank you for coming in
today. Hello, the variable.
today. Let's try it out now.
If you already know how
to do it, do by all means,
pause this video and go try it out because
it does involve a concept we learned
in episode one con cat nation
or adding stuff together.
Now we only added strings together,
but you can add more than just
strings together. Try it out,
but we're gonna walk through
it right now. Here we go. Woo.
So remove the extra print
function out of the way
and then uncomment our
original print function.
So we should have it just like this. Uh,
first what I'll do is just remove the
contents of this entire strings to start
from scratch. Start fresh. I'll start
with the string. Hello. And then,
you know, the name will come after.
So let's just put a space there
then to concatenate stuff.
We just use the plus sign, right?
We're adding things together.
So I'll do a space plus space and
then simply I'll type in the variable
name. Just like that. Also keeping in
mind that I'm putting a space after hello,
cause remember the computer will literally
print out what you tell it to print.
If you don't put a space there,
it'll just say hello, Susan.
Like it's all one word. Come on computer.
So you got to tell it what to do
anyway. So hello plus name again.
A variable has no quotations
or anything on it.
And then we'll add another string to
that. Plus start our new next string.
Put a space after that, but a comment.
Thank you so much for coming
in today. Now this is so cool.
Let's go ahead and run this code
and see what happens. Click on run.
It's going ask us your name.
Okay. My name is Bernard. What?
We're good at? That's so cool. We
programmed our robot barista to say hello,
Bernard. Thank you so
much for coming in today.
And actually I put an extra space that
shouldn't be there right before the COVID
let's fix that and run it again.
Oh, better. It's gonna bother me.
How cool is that?
Now there is one thing I don't like
about this and that's the input.
The question. What's your name?
And then we end up typing our name.
Like no space right after the question,
mark. That's ugly. How do you fix that?
Can you fix that for me? Real quick.
Pause the video. See if you can do it.
I'm gonna fix mine right now. Right here
in the inputs. I can do a few things.
I can just add a space right after that
and that should fix it and we run that
code. So yeah. Now there's a space
there. So does it feel so jarring?
So if I type Bernard will be right
after that better, even better.
I could just instead of a space,
do a backslash N the lime break
character. Let's try that. Oh,
new line. That's even
better. Bernard. Perfect.
Now here,
I'm going to challenge for you and
I'll give you the answer in this video,
but first I'm we can try it yourself.
I want you to program the robot
barista to give the customer a menu,
ask them what they want, receive the
information and tell them, Hey Bernard,
whoever it is, your whatever they
ordered will be ready in a few moments.
And I want you to set that menu to be a
variable. So can you do it? Try it out,
test it out. I'll wait, go and
pause the video now on pause.
Let's try it out. So first let's create
a quick coffee menu using a variable.
So I'll call my variable menu and
I'll equal that a simple string,
nothing too crazy. I'll say black coffee,
espresso latte,
Kappa Chino is a how you spell
it looks right. And that's good.
So right now we've got a variable menu.
It's equal to everything on our menu.
Now let's have a robot barista ask the
customer what they want and give them the
menu. So here we go. There are
a number of ways to do this,
but I'm going to do it this way. First.
We'll do a print function, prince.
And I'll say the name variable.
That'll add a string to it. Comma.
What would you like from our menu today?
Here is what we are serving and
the right within that string.
I'll do a line break and then
I'll add something else to this.
I'll add our menu.
So this should say the
variable name, then the string.
What would you like from our menu
today? Here's what we are serving.
And then it'll say the variable menu.
Let's try it out. Let's run this code.
Hello? What's your name? My name
is Susan. Oh, how cool is that?
I'm going to add some extra space right
here. Oh, it looks a bit more clean.
So I'll add that in that print
statement. See how it looks now, Susan,
get that looks better. So now let's
get the input from our customer.
I'm gonna create another
variable. I'll name it order.
And I'll have that equal input. Uh, for
this. I don't have to do anything fancy.
I'll just keep the input like this.
That's not going to print
anything or say anything,
but it will still expect input
from the user. Let's try it out.
Let's run the code. Bernard is my name.
And now it's waiting for me to answer.
I'll see. I don't know, latte.
Cool. So it took the input.
Now we have to do something with it. We
have to do something with our variable.
Let's do our next print statement.
And this is our final task in the, uh,
the project here. I'm going
to print. Sounds good.
Then I'll add the variable name. Then
I'll add string. I'll do a comma.
We'll have that.
And then I'll add the variable order
and then I'll add another string right
after that, which looks crazy.
Right. But it's going to be so cool.
Ready for you
and a moments now that's a lot
of stuff going on. It's so cool.
Because right now we're adding three
strings and two variables together in
one print function, which is nuts.
Let's go in print. Let's do it print.
And here's our complete script. What's
your name? Bernard. Here's our menu.
What would you like? Hmm, definitely
a black coffee. Sounds good.
Bernard will have that black coffee
ready for you in a moment you go robot
barista. You're doing so good.
I'm going to give you a tip now.
Real quick challenge for you. I know we
got a lot of challenges, but one more.
And I want you to comment
below with the answer.
How would I combine these two
parts of the script right here?
Let me know who episode two, coming in
strong. We learned two big things today.
First, the input function, how we can,
instead of just saying things
to our customer or the user,
we can actually request data from them
and have our robot reach to do something
with it. How cool is that?
But it's useless unless we can remember
that input and do something with it
later in our scripts, which
brings us to variables.
And we used both of those powerful
concepts to create a robot barista,
which is really cool right now, but
we can make it a lot more amazing,
a lot more powerful, which we'll do
in the coming episodes. But anyways,
that's all I got for you today.
Let me know what you think
in the comments below.
Make sure you hack YouTube today. Hit
that like button subscribe, comment,
notification bell. You gotta hack YouTube
today. Ethically of course. And again,
a massive shout out to the sponsor of
this entire series and the reason it can
be free here on YouTube. It pro TV. Oh,
and also I've got a quiz and a challenge
lab for you to test your knowledge of
episode one and two so far. Can you do it?
The first five people will solve it
and we'll get a free gift card to never
chuck.coffee. Let's see what you got.
If you want to get started in it,
or you want to further your career, they
are the place to get your stuff done.
Check it out. Link below. Use the code
network, Chuck and get 30% off forever.
Yeah, that's all I got to the guys.
I'll catch you in episode three.
[Inaudible].